Product
Resources
Support
Pricing
Sign in
Talk to sales
Try 1Password Free
AgileBits Cookie Policy

Everything you need to know about the cookies used on our website

This Cookie Policy applies for the websites of AgileBits Inc. (“1Password”) referred to in this Policy. The websites include https://1Password.com, https://1Password.ca and https://1Password.eu (together “Websites”).

European Union (“EU”) legislation requires all website operators to inform website visitors about their usage of cookies and similar technologies, for example, pixels, (hereinafter “cookies”) and to collect the user’s consent to such cookie usage.   

What are cookies?

A cookie is a small file placed on your computer by a particular website. Cookies serve many purposes, but are mainly used to track user preferences for a more tailored experience.

Why and where we use them

In an effort to better understand 1Password customers and meet their needs, first-party and third-party cookies are used on:

1Password.com
blog.1Password.com
releases.1Password.com
support.1Password.com

First-party cookies are set by 1Password. They help calculate things like page views and visitors to the website. Third-party cookies are set by 1Password affiliates for commission and advertising purposes.

We don’t use cookies of any kind on my.1password.com (the web application).

Cookies we use on our website
1Password

_ab
Determines whether a visitor receives the live version of the website or a test version.

_cc
Records whether the cookie banner was displayed to a visitor, and what level of consent was granted.

_fs
Generates a unique, anonymous ID that records the URL of the pages visited (in chronological order), value of the A/B test cookie, URL of the page that referred the visitor (if any), Google Analytics session IDs, visitor’s operating system, and web browser; affiliate information and whether the visitor started and completed the account sign-up process.

_fturl
Records the URL of the first page visited, which is used to evaluate the effectiveness of marketing campaigns.

userType
Captured to localstorage, this prioritizes cost and signup links for the account type most appropriate for a visitor.

Commission Junction

_af
Contains a unique affiliate ID, that’s generated by Commission Junction, if you’ve been referred to our website.

Google Analytics

_ga, _gid
Used to distinguish visitors from one another.

_gt
Used to limit the collection of information on high-traffic websites.

gclid
Captured to ref, this Google Click Identifier tells us general information about your visit to our website, if you’ve been referred by an advertisement.

ref
Contains the URL of the website that referred you to ours.

Tracking Pixels
Source tracking

dl, utm_source, utm_medium, utm_campaign, utm_term, utm_content, dr
Identify webpage and source information. They tell us the address of the page you viewed, if you were referred by a search engine or another source, search keywords, ad keywords, A/B test information, and the URL of the source that brought you to our website.

Device information

ul, de, dt, sd, sr, vp, je
Identify a user’s device information. They tell us the default language, the character set used to encode the page, the title of the page, the screen color depth and resolution, the viewable area of the browser/device, and whether Java was enabled for the visit.

Time data

plt, pdt, dns, rrt, srt, tcp, dit, clt
Specify the time (in milliseconds) it took for our website to perform certain functions. They tell us the time it took for the page to download and how long it took to load. They also specify the time it took to do a DNS lookup, for any redirects to happen, for the server to respond after the connect time, for a TCP connection to be made, for Document.readyState to be ‘interactive’, and for the DOMContentLoaded event to fire.

User information

jid, tid, av, cd1, z
Anonymous user identifiers, like unique measurement IDs, that specify the application version, the custom dimension (index), and are used in GET requests to make sure hits aren’t cached by browsers and proxies.

ga-audiences
Allows us to anonymously organize visitors who share preferences, so we can provide similar experiences for those visitors. It identifies unique website visits and revisits, users who visited the same section/group of webpages, and users who completed a goal or transaction.

Trade Desk Universal and Static Pixels

This allows us to learn if a visitor to our website has also clicked on an advertisement before arriving at 1password.com. This information is used to serve more relevant adverts to that visitor once they have left the 1Password website on our partner sites across the web. The data used is not personally identifiable, but based on visitor session data, stored in a cookie in your browser.

Television Advertising Tracking

_ct
Stores whether a user can be tracked with conditional tracking. The decision happens in CloudFront, using the Cloudfront-Viewer-Country header, comparing that value against [“US”, “UK”,“CA”]. We only store the yes or no decision in _ct

TDCPM and TDID under .adsrvr.org guid, rt under .mountain.com, tt under .px.mountain.com
Used to support Mountain’s performance tracking for ConnectedTV ads for visitors qualified by geolocation with ct. Allows us to learn when a visitor views a specific television commercial or our advertisement on a streaming device, and then visits our website.

Updates

This Cookie Policy is updated from time to time.

Change log

2022-03-10

Added the use of Tracking Pixels as of the date of update.

2021-12-07

Added the use of Trade Desk Universal and Static Pixels as of the date of update.