SKIP TO MAIN CONTENT
Slack Subprocessors

Effective: September 8, 2022

To support delivery of our Services, Slack Technologies, LLC (or one of its Affiliates listed below), may engage and use data processors with access to certain Customer Data (each, a "Subprocessor"). This page provides important information about the identity, location and role of each Subprocessor. Terms used on this page but not defined have the meaning set forth in the Customer Terms of Service (or if applicable, the superseding written agreement between Customer and Slack or a Slack affiliate(s)) (the "Agreement").

Third Parties

Slack currently uses third party Subprocessors to provide infrastructure services, and to help us provide customer support and email notifications. Prior to engaging any third party Subprocessor, Slack performs diligence to evaluate their privacy, security and confidentiality practices, and executes an agreement implementing its applicable obligations.

Infrastructure Subprocessors

Slack may use the following Subprocessors to host Customer Data or provide other infrastructure that helps with delivery of our Services:

Entity Name	Purpose of Processing	Location of Subprocessors	Additional Details
Amazon Web Services, Inc.	Third-party hosting provider	
United States
Australia
Canada
France
Germany
India
Japan
United Kingdom
	Customers may select a data region, but as described in this Help Center article, certain Customer Data may be stored outside this data region. Customer Data from the Germany region is backed up in France, and vice versa.
Amazon Web Services, Inc.	Third-party hosting provider Third-party hosting provider for Availability zones/Edge servers	
United States
Australia
Germany
India
Ireland
Japan
Singapore
South Africa
United Kingdom
	Customer Data may be transmitted through any Edge region to provide better and faster service response time, depending, for example, on the location of Slack Users.
Google LLC	Cloud Service Provider	United States	Email notifications (e.g.,workspace invitations) sent by the Slack services are powered by Google Cloud
Other Subprocessors

Slack may use the following Subprocessors to perform other Service functions:

Entity Name	Purpose of Processing	Location of Subprocessors
Zendesk, Inc.	Third-party service provider of customer support tools	United States
Cloudfront (Amazon Web Services, Inc.)	CDN	Global
Fastly, Inc.	CDN	Global
Note: Content Delivery Networks (“CDN”) are utilized to optimize content delivery for the Services. CDNs are commonly used systems of distributed services that expedite the transmission of content. Note that if a CDN is described as “Global” in the Table, it may process data in any country, regardless of a Customer’s location, to better support end-users of the Services.
Slack Affiliates

Depending on the geographic location of a Customer or their Authorized Users, and the nature of the Services provided, Slack may also engage one or more of its Affiliates as Subprocessors to deliver some or all of the Services provided to a Customer.

Updates

As our business grows and evolves, the Subprocessors we engage may also change. We will endeavor to provide the owner of Customer’s account with notice of any new Subprocessors to the extent required under the Agreement, along with posting such updates here. Please check back frequently for updates.

This website uses cookies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners.More Info

COOKIES SETTINGS
ACCEPT ALL COOKIES