Skip to main content
 Privacy Policy
Privacy Settings
Privacy Center
Help Center
Policy Archive
Download PDF
Twitter Privacy Policy

This version of the policy will take effect on June 10, 2022. Read current policy.

This version of the policy will take effect on June 10, 2022. Read current policy.

Before you scroll, read this

It’s really hard to make everyone happy with a Privacy Policy. Most people who use Twitter want something short and easy to understand. While we wish we could fit everything you need to know into a Tweet, our regulators ask us to meet our legal obligations by describing them all in a lot of detail.

With that in mind, we’ve written our Privacy Policy as simply as possible to empower you to make informed decisions when you use Twitter by making sure you understand and have control over the information we collect, how it’s used, and when it’s shared. 

So if you skip reading every word of the Privacy Policy, at least know this:

 

Twitter is a public platform

Learn what’s viewable & searchable

We collect some data
about you

Learn what we collect & how

Affiliate services may have their own policies

Learn about affiliates

We use your data to make Twitter better

Learn how we make your info work

You can control your experience

Learn how to update your settings

If you have questions about how we use data, just ask

Learn how to contact us

Twitter is a public platform

Learn what’s viewable & searchable

We collect some data
about you

Learn what we collect & how

Affiliate services may have their own policies

Learn about affiliates

We use your data to make Twitter better

Learn how we make your info work

You can control your experience

Learn how to update your settings

If you have questions about how we use data, just ask

Learn how to contact us

Seriously — what happens with my data?
Seriously — what happens with my data?
What data do you collect about me?

You give some data, we get some data. In return we offer useful services. Not what you had in mind? Check your settings.

 

1. Information We Collect

The information we collect when you use Twitter falls into three categories.

Expand dropdowns for more information:

1.1 Information you provide us.


To use some of our products and services you need to have an account, and to create an account, you need to provide us certain information. Likewise, if you use our paid products and services, we cannot provide them to you without getting payment information. Basically, certain information is necessary if you want to use many of our products and services.

Personal Accounts. If you create an account, you must provide us with some information so that we can provide our services to you. This includes a display name (for example, “Twitter Moments”); a username (for example, @TwitterMoments); a password; an email address or phone number; a date of birth; your display language; and third-party single sign-in information (if you choose this sign-in method). You can also choose to share your location in your profile and Tweets, and to upload your address book to Twitter to help find people you may know. Your profile information, which includes your display name and username, is always public, but you can use either your real name or a pseudonym. And remember, you can create multiple Twitter accounts, for example, to express different parts of your identity, professional or otherwise. 

Professional Accounts. If you create a professional account, you also need to provide us with a professional category, and may provide us with other information, including street address, contact email address, and contact phone number, all of which will always be public. 

Payment Information. In order to purchase ads or other offerings provided as part of our paid products and services you will need to provide us payment information, including your credit or debit card number, card expiration date, CVV code, and billing address.

Preferences. When you set your preferences using your settings, we collect that information so that we can respect your preferences.




1.2 Information we collect when you use Twitter.

When you use our services, we collect information about how you use our products and services. We use that information to provide you with products and services, to help keep Twitter more secure and respectful for everyone, and more relevant to you.
 


Usage Information. We collect information about your activity on Twitter, including:

Tweets and other content you post (including the date, application, and version of Twitter) and information about your broadcast activity (e.g., TwitterLive or Spaces), including broadcasts you’ve created and when you created them, your lists, bookmarks, and communities you are a part of.
Your interactions with other users’ content, such as retweets, likes, shares, replies, if other users mention or tag you in content or if you mention or tag them, and broadcasts you’ve participated in (including your viewing history, listening, commenting, speaking, and reacting).
How you interact with others on the platform, such as people you follow and people who follow you, and when you use Direct Messages, including the contents of the messages, the recipients, and date and time of messages.
If you communicate with us, such as through email, we will collect information about the communication and its content.
We collect information on links you interact with across our services (including in our emails sent to you).

Purchase and payments. To allow you to make a payment or send money using Twitter features or services, including through an intermediary, we may receive information about your transaction such as when it was made, when a subscription is set to expire or auto-renew, and amounts paid or received.

Device Information. We collect information from and about the devices you use to access Twitter, including:

Information about your connection, such as your IP address and browser type.
Information about your device and its settings, such as device and advertising ID, operating system, carrier, language, memory, apps installed, and battery level.
Your device address book, if you’ve chosen to share it with us.

Location Information. When you use Twitter, we collect some information about your approximate location to provide the service you expect, including showing you relevant ads. You can also choose to share your current precise location or places where you’ve previously used Twitter by enabling these settings in your account.



Inferred Identity. We may collect or receive information that we use to infer your identity as detailed below:


When you sign into Twitter on a browser or device, we will associate that browser or device with your account. Subject to your settings, we may also associate your account with browsers or devices other than those you use to sign into Twitter (or associate your signed-out device or browser with other browsers or devices or Twitter-generated identifiers).
When you provide other information to Twitter, including an email address or phone number, we associate that information with your Twitter account. Subject to your settings, we may also use this information in order to infer other information about your identity, for example by associating your account with hashes of email addresses that share common components with the email address you have provided to Twitter.
When you access Twitter and are not signed in, we may infer your identity based on the information we collect.

Log Information. We may receive information when you view content on or otherwise interact with our products and services, even if you have not created an account or are signed out, such as:

IP address; browser type and language; operating system; the referring webpage; access times; pages visited; location; your mobile carrier; device information (including device and application IDs); search terms and IDs (including those not submitted as queries); ads shown to you on Twitter; Twitter-generated identifiers; and identifiers associated with cookies. We also receive log information when you click on, view, or interact with links on our services, including when you install another application through Twitter.


Advertisements. When you view or interact with ads we serve on or off Twitter, we may collect information about those views or interactions (e.g., watching a video ad or preroll, clicking on an ad, interacting with retweets of or replies to an ad). 


Cookies and similar technologies. Like many websites, we use cookies and similar technologies to collect additional website usage data and to operate our services. Cookies are not required for many parts of our products and services such as searching and looking at public profiles. You can learn more about how we use cookies and similar technologies here.

Interactions with our content on third-party sites. When you view our content on third-party websites that integrate Twitter content such as embedded timelines or Tweet buttons, we may receive log information that includes the web page you visited.
 

1.3 Information we receive from third parties.


When you use other online products and services, they may share information about that usage with us.

Ad Partners, Developers, Publishers. Our ad and business partners share information with us such as browser cookie IDs, Twitter-generated identifiers, mobile device IDs, hashed user information like email addresses, demographic or interest data, and content viewed or actions taken on a website or app. Some of our ad partners, particularly our advertisers, also enable us to collect similar information directly from their website or app by integrating our advertising technology. Information shared by ad partners and affiliates or collected by Twitter from the websites and apps of ad partners and affiliates may be combined with the other information you share with Twitter and that Twitter receives, generates, or infers about you described elsewhere in this Privacy Policy.

Other Third Parties, Account Connections, and Integrations. We may receive information about you from third parties who are not our ad partners, such as other Twitter users, developers, and partners who help us evaluate the safety and quality of content on our platform, our corporate affiliates, and other services you link to your Twitter account. You may choose to connect your Twitter account to your account on another service, and that other service may send us information about your account on that service.
 

How do you use my information?

To make Twitter the service you know and love.

2. How We Use Information

Breaking down how we use the information we collect is not simple because of the way the systems that bring our services to you work. For example, the same piece of information may be used differently for different purposes to ultimately deliver a single service. We think it’s most useful to describe the five main ways we use information and if you have questions that are not answered, you can always contact us. Here we go:

Expand dropdowns for more information:
 

 
2.1 Operate, improve, and personalize our services.


We use the information we collect to provide and operate Twitter products and services. We also use the information we collect to improve and personalize our products and services so that you have a better experience on Twitter, including by showing you more relevant content and ads, suggesting people and topics to follow, enabling and helping you discover affiliates, third-party apps, and services. 

We may use the information we collect from accounts of other services that you choose to connect your Twitter account to provide you features like cross-posting or cross-service authentication, and to operate our services.

We use your contact information to help others find your account if your settings permit, including through third-party services and client applications.

We use your information to provide our advertising and sponsored content services subject to your settings, which helps make ads on Twitter more relevant to you. We also use this information to measure the effectiveness of ads and to help recognize your devices to serve you ads on and off of Twitter. Some of our ad partners also enable us to collect similar information directly from their website or app by integrating our advertising technology. Information shared by ad partners and affiliates or collected by Twitter from the websites and apps of ad partners and affiliates may be combined with the other information you share with Twitter and that Twitter receives, generates, or infers about you, as described elsewhere in our Privacy Policy.

2.2 Foster safety and security.


We use information we collect to provide for the safety and security of our users, our products, services, and your account. This includes verifying your identity, authenticating your account, and defending against fraud, unauthorized use, and illegal activity. We also use the information to evaluate and affect the safety and quality of content on Twitter - this includes investigating and enforcing our policies and and terms, as well as applicable law.
 

2.3 Measure, analyze and make our services better.


We use the information we collect to measure and analyze the effectiveness of our products and services and to better understand how you use them in order to make them better.

2.4 Communicate with you about our services.


We use the information we collect to communicate with you about our products and services, including about product updates and changes to our policies and terms. If you’re open to hearing from us, we may also send you marketing messages from time to time.

2.5 Research.


We use information you share with us, or that we collect to conduct research, surveys, product testing, and troubleshooting to help us operate and improve our products and services.

My Tweets are public?!?
My Tweets are public?!?
How or when do you share my information?

There’s no quick answer to this one, but heads up: Tweets can end up in the news or a search engine.

3. Sharing Information

You should know the ways we share your information, why we share it, and how you can control it. There are five general ways we share your information.

Expand dropdowns for more information:
 

 
3.1 When you Tweet, post, and share.


With the general public. You are directing us to disclose that information as broadly as possible. Twitter content, including your profile information (e.g., name/pseudonym, username, profile pictures), is available for viewing by the general public. The public does not need to be signed in to view much of the content on Twitter. They may also find Twitter content off of Twitter, for example from search query results on Internet search engines.

With other Twitter users. Depending on your settings, and based on the Twitter products and services you use, we share:

Your interactions with Twitter content of other users, such as likes, and people you follow.
Content you send to a specific Twitter user, such as through Direct Messages. Please keep in mind that if you’ve shared information like Direct Messages or protected Tweets with someone else who accesses Twitter through a third-party service, the information may be shared with the third-party service.

With partners. Depending on your settings, we also provide certain third parties with information to help us offer or operate our products and services. You can learn more about these partnerships in our Help Center. You can control whether Twitter shares your personal information with these partners by using the “Data sharing with business partners” option in your Privacy & Safety settings. (This setting does not control sharing described elsewhere in this Privacy Policy, such as when we share information with our service providers, or through partnerships other than as described in this Help Center article.)
 

3.2 With third parties & third-party integrations.


With service providers. We may share your information with our service providers that perform functions and provide services on our behalf, including payment services providers who facilitate payments; service providers that host our various blogs and wikis; service providers that help us understand the use of our services; and those that provide fraud detection services. 

With advertisers. Advertising revenue enables us to provide our products and services. Advertisers may learn information from your engagement with their ads on or off Twitter. For example, if you click on an external link or ad on our services, that advertiser or website operator might figure out that you came from Twitter, along with other information associated with the ad you clicked, such as characteristics of the audience it was intended to reach and other Twitter-generated identifiers for that ad. They may also collect other personal information from you, such as cookie identifiers, or your IP address.

Third-party content & integrations. We share or disclose your information with your consent or at your direction, such as when you authorize a third-party web client or application to access your account or when you direct us to share your feedback with a business. Similarly, to improve your experience, we work with third-party partners to display their video content on Twitter or to allow cross-platform sharing. When you watch or otherwise interact with content from our video or cross-platform sharing partners, they may receive and process your personal information as described in their privacy policies. For video content, you can adjust your autoplay settings if you prefer that content not to play automatically.

Through our APIs. We use technology like APIs and embeds to make public Twitter information available to websites, apps, and others for their use, for example, displaying Tweets on a news website or analyzing what people say on Twitter. We generally make this content available in limited quantities for free and charge licensing fees for large-scale access. We have standard terms that govern how this information can be used, and a compliance program to enforce these terms. But these individuals and companies are not affiliated with Twitter, and their offerings may not reflect updates you make on Twitter. For more information about how we make public data on Twitter available to the world, visit https://developer.twitter.com.
 

3.3 When required by law, to prevent harm, or in the public interest.


We may preserve, use, share, or disclose your information if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to:

comply with a law, regulation, legal process, or governmental request;

protect the safety of any person, protect the safety or integrity of our platform, including to help prevent spam, abuse, or malicious actors on our services;

explain why we have removed content or accounts from our services (e.g., for a violation of Twitter Rules);

address fraud, security, or technical issues; or

protect our rights or property, or the rights or property of those who use our services.

3.4 With our Affiliates.


We may share information amongst our affiliates to provide our products and services.

3.5 As a result of a change in ownership.


We may share, sell, or transfer information about you in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization, sale of assets, or bankruptcy. This Privacy Policy will apply to your personal information that is shared with (before and after the close of any transaction) or transferred to the new entity.

Does data have an expiration date?
Does data have an expiration date?
How long do you keep data?

Generally, we keep your data as long as your account is up.

4. How Long We Keep Information

We keep different types of information for different periods of time: 

We keep your profile information and content for the duration of your account.

We generally keep other personally identifiable data we collect when you use our products and services for a maximum of 18 months.

Remember public content can exist elsewhere even after you remove it from Twitter. For example, search engines and other third parties may retain copies of your Tweets longer, based upon their own privacy policies, even after they are deleted or expire on Twitter. You can read more about search visibility here.

Where you violate our Rules and your account is suspended, we may keep the identifiers you used to create the account (i.e., email address or phone number) indefinitely to prevent repeat policy offenders from creating new accounts.

We may keep certain information longer than our policies specify in order to comply with legal requirements and for safety and security reasons.

How can I control my data?

You can access it, delete it, or change your settings. Basically, you’re the boss.

5. Take Control

Expand dropdowns for more information:
 

5.1 Access, Correction, Portability.


You can access, correct, or modify the information you provided to us by editing your profile and adjusting your account settings.

You can learn more about the information we have collected or inferred about you in Your Twitter Data and request access to additional information here.

You can download a copy of your information, such as your Tweets, by following the instructions here.

On the Periscope website, you can request correction or modification of your information, and download your account information, by following the instructions here.

To protect your privacy and maintain security, we take steps to verify your identity before granting you access to your personal information or complying with a deletion, portability, or other related request. We may, in certain situations, reject your request for access, correction, or portability, for example, we may reject access where you are unable to verify your identity.


5.2 Deleting your Information.


If you follow the instructions here (or for Periscope here), your account will be deactivated. When deactivated, your Twitter account, including your display name, username, and public profile, will no longer be viewable on Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, and Twitter for Android. For up to 30 days after deactivation it is still possible to restore your Twitter account if it was accidentally or wrongfully deactivated.

5.3 Objecting to, Restricting, or Withdrawing your Consent.


You can manage your privacy settings and other account features here. If you change your settings it may take some time for your choices to be fully reflected throughout our systems. You may also notice changes in your Twitter experience or limitations in your ability to access certain features depending on the settings you’ve adjusted.

Twitter adheres to the Digital Advertising Alliance Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising (also referred to as “interest-based advertising”) and respects the DAA’s consumer choice tool for you to opt out of interest-based advertising at https://optout.aboutads.info/.

5.4 Authorized Agent Requests.


To submit a request related to access, modification, or deletion of your information, or someone else’s information if you are their authorized agent, you may also contact us as specified in the How To Contact Twitter section of our Privacy Policy below. We may require you to provide additional information for verification.

How does Twitter handle my information wherever I am?

We treat your information fairly, no matter where you live around the world.

6. Your Rights and Ours

We provide Twitter to people all over the world and provide many of the same privacy tools and controls to all of our users regardless of where they live. However, your experience may be slightly different than users in other countries to ensure Twitter respects local requirements.

Expand dropdowns for more information:
 

6.1 We have specific legal bases to use your information.


Twitter has carefully considered the legal reasons it is permitted to collect, use, share and otherwise process your information. If you want to dig in to learn more and better understand the nuances, we’d encourage you to check out this additional information about data processing. And no, we don’t sell your personal information. 
 

6.2 We move your data to make Twitter work for you.


Just as you use Twitter to seamlessly participate in global conversations with people in countries all over the world, Twitter must move information across borders and to different countries around the world to support the safe and reliable service you depend on. For example, if you live in Europe and are having a conversation with someone in the United States, information has to move between those countries to provide that experience – it’s what you expect from us.

We also use data centers and cloud providers, and engage our affiliates and third-party partners and service providers located in many parts of the world to help us provide our services. Before we move data between countries we look at the risks that may be presented to the data and rely on things like standard contractual clauses, where applicable, to ensure your data rights are protected. If data will be shared with a third party, we require them to maintain the same protections over your data that we provide directly.

Is Twitter for kids?

Nope, Twitter is not intended for people under 13.

7. Twitter’s Audience

Our services are not directed to children, and you may not use our services if you are under the age of 13. You must also be old enough to consent to the processing of your personal data in your country (in some countries we may allow your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf).

You there, Twitter?
You there, Twitter?
Will this policy change?

If it does, we’ll let you know.

8. Changes To This Privacy Policy


The most current version of this Privacy Policy governs our processing of your personal data and we may revise this Privacy Policy from time to time as needed.

If we do revise this Privacy Policy and make changes that are determined by us to be material, we will provide you notice and an opportunity to review the revised Privacy Policy before you continue to use Twitter.

How can I contact Twitter?

Slide into our … very official inbox.

 

9. How To Contact Twitter

We want to hear from you if you have thoughts or questions about this Privacy Policy. You can contact us via our Privacy Policy Inquiries page or by writing to us at the appropriate address below.

If you live in the United States or any other country outside of the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, the data controller responsible for your personal data is Twitter, Inc. with an address of:

Twitter, Inc.
Attn: Privacy Policy Inquiry
1355 Market Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, CA 94103

If you live in the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, the data controller is Twitter International Unlimited Company, with an address of:

Twitter International Unlimited Company
Attn: Data Protection Officer
One Cumberland Place, Fenian Street
Dublin 2, D02 AX07 IRELAND


You can confidentially contact Twitter’s Data Protection Officer through our Data Protection Inquiry Form. If you wish to raise a concern about our data processing practices, you have the right to do so with your local supervisory authority or Twitter International Unlimited Company’s lead supervisory authority, the Irish Data Protection Commission, using the contact details listed on their website.

View previous policies 
Our new Privacy Policy’s got game
Play the game 
 
Current Policy
Effective: August 19, 2021
1. Information You Share With Us

We require certain information to provide our services to you. For example, you must have an account in order to upload or share content on Twitter. When you choose to share the information below with us, we collect and use it to operate our services.

Expand dropdowns for more information:

1.1 Basic Account Information


You don’t have to create an account to use some of our service features, such as searching and viewing public Twitter profiles or watching a broadcast on Periscope’s website. If you do choose to create an account, you must provide us with some personal data so that we can provide our services to you. On Twitter this includes a display name (for example, “Twitter Moments”), a username (for example, @TwitterMoments), a password, and an email address or phone number. Your display name and username are always public, but you can use either your real name or a pseudonym. If you choose to create a professional account, you must also provide us with your professional category, and may provide us with additional information, including street address, contact email address, and contact phone number, all of which will always be public. You can also create and manage multiple Twitter accounts1, for example to express different parts of your identity.
 

1.2 Public Information


Most activity on Twitter is public, including your profile information2, your display language, when you created your account, and your Tweets and certain information about your Tweets like the date, time, and application and version of Twitter you Tweeted from. You also may choose to publish your location in your Tweets or your Twitter profile. When you share audio or visual content on our service we may analyze that data to operate our services, for example by providing audio transcription. The lists you create, people you follow and who follow you, and Tweets you Like or Retweet are also public. If you like, Retweet, reply, or otherwise publicly engage with an ad on our services, that advertiser might thereby learn information about you associated with the ad with which you engaged such as characteristics of the audience the ad was intended to reach. Broadcasts (including Twitter Spaces) you create are public along with when you created them. Your engagement with broadcasts, including viewing, listening, commenting, speaking, reacting to, or otherwise participating in them, either on Periscope (subject to your settings) or on Twitter, is public along with when you took those actions. On Periscope, so are your hearts, comments, the number of hearts you’ve received, which accounts you are a Superfan of, and whether you watched a broadcast live or on replay. Any engagement with another account’s broadcast will remain part of that broadcast for as long as it remains on our services. Information posted about you by other people who use our services may also be public. For example, other people may tag you in a photo3 (if your settings allow) or mention you in a Tweet.

You are responsible for your Tweets and other information you provide through our services, and you should think carefully about what you make public, especially if it is sensitive information. If you update your public information on Twitter, such as by deleting a Tweet or deactivating your account, we will reflect your updated content on Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, and Twitter for Android.

By publicly posting content, you are directing us to disclose that information as broadly as possible, including through our APIs, and directing those accessing the information through our APIs to do the same. To facilitate the fast global dissemination of Tweets to people around the world, we use technology like application programming interfaces (APIs) and embeds to make that information available to websites, apps, and others for their use - for example, displaying Tweets on a news website or analyzing what people say on Twitter. We generally make this content available in limited quantities for free and charge licensing fees for large-scale access. We have standard terms that govern how this data can be used, and a compliance program to enforce these terms. But these individuals and companies are not affiliated with Twitter, and their offerings may not reflect updates you make on Twitter. For more information about how we make public data on Twitter available to the world, visit https://developer.twitter.com.
 

1.3 Contact Information and Address Books


We use your contact information, such as your email address or phone number, to authenticate your account and keep it - and our services - secure, and to help prevent spam, fraud, and abuse. Subject to your settings, we also use contact information to enable certain account features (for example, for login verification), to send you information about our services, and to personalize our services, including ads. If you provide us with your phone number, you agree to receive text messages from Twitter to that number as your country’s laws allow. Twitter also uses your contact information to market to you as your country’s laws allow, and to help others find your account if your settings permit, including through third-party services and client applications. You can use your settings for email and mobile notifications to control notifications you receive from Twitter. You can also unsubscribe from a notification by following the instructions contained within the notification or here.

You can choose to upload and sync your address book on Twitter so that we can help you find and connect with people you know and help others find and connect with you. We also use this information to better recommend content to you and others.

You can sign up for Periscope with an account from another service like Twitter, Google, or Facebook, or connect your Periscope account to these other services. If you do, we will use information from that service, including your email address, friends, or contacts list, to recommend other accounts or content to you or to recommend your account or content to others. You can control whether your Periscope account is discoverable by email through your Periscope settings.

If you email us, we will keep the content of your message, your email address, and your contact information to respond to your request.
 

1.4 Direct Messages & Communications


We provide certain features that let you communicate more privately or control who sees your content. For example, you can use Direct Messages to have non-public conversations on Twitter, protect your Tweets, or host private broadcasts on Periscope. When you communicate with others by sending or receiving Direct Messages, we will store and process your communications and information related to them. This includes link scanning for malicious content, link shortening to http://t.co URLs, detection of spam4, abuse and prohibited images, and use of reported issues. We also use information about whom you have communicated with and when (but not the content of those communications) to better understand the use of our services, to protect the safety and integrity of our platform, and to show more relevant content. We share the content of your Direct Messages with the people you’ve sent them to; we do not use them to serve you ads. Note that if you interact in a way that would ordinarily be public with Twitter content shared with you via Direct Message, for instance by liking a Tweet, those interactions will be public. When you use features like Direct Messages to communicate, remember that recipients have their own copy5 of your communications on Twitter - even if you delete your copy of those messages from your account - which they may duplicate, store, or re-share.
 

1.5 Payment Information


You may provide us with payment information6, including your credit or debit card number, card expiration date, CVV code, and billing address, in order to purchase advertising or other offerings provided as part of our services. If you make a payment or send money using Twitter features or services, including through an intermediary, we may receive information about your transaction such as when it was made or when a subscription is set to expire or auto-renew.
 

1.6 How You Control the Information You Share with Us


Your Privacy and safety settings let you decide:


Whether your Tweets are publicly available on Twitter

Whether others can tag you in a photo

Whether you will be able to receive Direct Messages from anyone on Twitter or just your followers

Whether others can find you based on your email or phone number

Whether you upload your address book to Twitter for storage and use

When and where you may see sensitive content on Twitter

Whether you want to block or mute other Twitter accounts
 
2. Additional Information We Receive About You

We receive certain information when you use our services or other websites or mobile applications that include our content, and from third parties including advertisers. Like the information you share with us, we use the data below to operate our services.

Expand dropdowns for more information:

2.1 Location Information


We require information about your signup and current location, which we get from signals such as your IP address or device settings, to securely and reliably set up and maintain your account and to provide our services to you.

Subject to your settings, we may collect, use, and store additional information about your location - such as your current precise position or places where you’ve previously used Twitter - to operate or personalize our services including with more relevant content like local trends, stories, ads, and suggestions for people to follow. Learn more about Twitter’s use of location here, and how to set your Twitter location preferences here. Learn more about how to share your location in Periscope broadcasts here.
 

2.2 Links


In order to operate our services, we keep track of how you interact with links across our services. This includes links in emails we send you and links in Tweets that appear on other websites or mobile applications.

If you click on an external link or ad on our services, that advertiser or website operator might figure out that you came from Twitter or Periscope, along with other information associated with the ad you clicked such as characteristics of the audience it was intended to reach. They may also collect other personal data from you, such as cookie identifiers or your IP address.
 

2.3 Cookies


A cookie is a small piece of data that is stored on your computer or mobile device. Like many websites, we use cookies and similar technologies to collect additional website usage data and to operate our services. Cookies are not required for many parts of our services such as searching and looking at public profiles. Although most web browsers automatically accept cookies, many browsers’ settings can be set to decline cookies or alert you when a website is attempting to place a cookie on your computer7. However, some of our services may not function properly if you disable cookies. When your browser or device allows it, we use both session cookies and persistent cookies to better understand how you interact with our services, to monitor aggregate usage patterns, and to personalize and otherwise operate our services such as by providing account security, personalizing the content we show you including ads, and remembering your language preferences. We do not support the Do Not Track browser option. You can learn more about how we use cookies and similar technologies here.
 

2.4 Log Data


We receive information when you view content on or otherwise interact with our services, which we refer to as “Log Data,” even if you have not created an account. For example, when you visit our websites, sign into our services, interact with our email notifications, use your account to authenticate to a third-party service, or visit a third-party service that includes Twitter content, we may receive information about you. This Log Data includes information such as your IP address, browser type, operating system, the referring web page, pages visited, location, your mobile carrier, device information (including device and application IDs), search terms (including those not submitted as queries), and cookie information. We also receive Log Data when you click on, view, or interact with links on our services, including when you install another application through Twitter. We use Log Data to operate our services and ensure their secure, reliable, and robust performance. For example, we use Log Data to protect the security of accounts and to determine what content is popular on our services. We also use this data to improve the content we show you, including ads and to improve the effectiveness of our own marketing.

We use information you provide to us and data we receive, including Log Data and data from third parties, to make inferences like what topics you may be interested in, how old you are, and what languages you speak. This helps us better promote and design our services for you and personalize the content we show you, including ads.
 

2.5 Twitter for Web Data


When you view our content on third-party websites that integrate Twitter content such as embedded timelines or Tweet buttons, we may receive Log Data that includes the web page you visited. We use this information to better understand the use of our services, to protect the safety and integrity of our platform, and to show more relevant content, including ads. We do not associate this web browsing history with your name, email address, phone number, or username, and we delete, obfuscate, or aggregate it after no longer than 30 days. We do not collect this data from browsers that we believe to be located in the European Union, the United Kingdom, or EFTA States.
 

2.6 Advertisers and Other Ad Partners


Advertising revenue allows us to support and improve our services. We use the information described in this Privacy Policy to help make our advertising more relevant to you, to measure its effectiveness, and to help recognize your devices to serve you ads on and off of Twitter. Our ad partners and affiliates share information with us such as browser cookie IDs, mobile device IDs, hashed email addresses, demographic or interest data, and content viewed or actions taken on a website or app. Some of our ad partners, particularly our advertisers, also enable us to collect similar information directly from their website or app by integrating our advertising technology. Information shared by ad partners and affiliates or collected by Twitter from the websites and apps of ad partners and affiliates may be combined with the other information you share with Twitter and that Twitter receives about you described elsewhere in our Privacy Policy.

Twitter adheres to the Digital Advertising Alliance Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising (also referred to as “interest-based advertising”) and respects the DAA’s consumer choice tool for you to opt out of interest-based advertising at https://optout.aboutads.info. In addition, our ads policies prohibit advertisers from targeting ads based on categories that we consider sensitive or are prohibited by law, such as race, religion, politics, sex life, or health. Learn more about your privacy options for interest-based ads here and about how ads work on our services here.

If you are an advertiser or a prospective advertiser, we process your personal data to help offer and provide our advertising services. You can update your data in your Twitter Ads dashboard or by contacting us directly as described in this Privacy Policy.
 

2.7 Developers


If you access our APIs or developer portal, we process your personal data to help provide our services. You can update your data by contacting us directly as described in this Privacy Policy.
 

2.8 Other Third Parties and Affiliates


We may receive information about you from third parties who are not our ad partners, such as others on Twitter, partners who help us evaluate the safety and quality of content on our platform, our corporate affiliates, and other services you link to your Twitter account.

You may choose to connect your Twitter account to accounts on another service, and that other service may send us information about your account on that service. We use the information we receive to provide you features like cross-posting or cross-service authentication, and to operate our services. For integrations that Twitter formally supports, you may revoke this permission at any time from your application settings; for other integrations, please visit the other service you have connected to Twitter.
 

2.9 Personalizing Across Your Devices


When you log into Twitter on a browser or device, we will associate that browser or device with your account for purposes such as authentication, security, and personalization. Subject to your settings, we may also associate your account with browsers or devices other than those you use to log into Twitter (or associate your logged-out device or browser with other browsers or devices). When you provide other information to Twitter, including an email address, we associate that information with your Twitter account. Subject to your settings, we may also use this information in order to infer other information about your identity, for example by associating your account with hashes of email addresses that share common components with the email address you have provided to Twitter. We do this to operate and personalize our services. For example, if you visit websites with sports content on your laptop, we may show you sports-related ads on Twitter for Android and, if the email address associated with your account shares components with another email address, such as shared first name, last name, or initials, we may later match advertisements to you from advertisers that were trying to reach email addresses containing those components.
 

2.10 How You Control Additional Information We Receive


Your Twitter Personalization and data settings let you decide:

Whether we show you interest-based ads on and off Twitter

How we personalize based on your inferred identity

Whether we collect and use your precise location

Whether we personalize your experience based on where you’ve been

Whether we keep track of the websites where you see Twitter content


You can use Your Twitter data to review:


Advertisers who have included you in tailored audiences to serve you ads

Demographic and interest data about your account from our ads partners

Information that Twitter has inferred about you such as your age range, gender, languages, and interests


We also provide a version of these tools on Twitter if you don’t have a Twitter account, or if you’re logged out of your account. This lets you see the data and settings for the logged out browser or device you are using, separate from any Twitter account that uses that browser or device. On Periscope, you can control whether we personalize your experience based on your watch history through your settings.

Please see here for more details of how we collect and use your data
 

3. Information We Share and Disclose

As noted above, Twitter is designed to broadly and instantly disseminate information you share publicly through our services. In the limited circumstances where we disclose your private personal data, we do so subject to your control, because it’s important for operating our services, or because it’s required by law.

Expand dropdowns for more information:

3.1 Sharing Your Control


We share or disclose your personal data with your consent or at your direction, such as when you authorize a third-party web client or application to access your account or when you direct us to share your feedback with a business. Similarly, to improve your experience, we work with third-party partners to display their video content on Twitter. When you watch or otherwise interact with content from these partners, they may receive and process your personal data as described in their privacy policies. If you do not want this content to play automatically, you can adjust your autoplay settings. If you’ve shared information like Direct Messages or protected Tweets with someone else who accesses Twitter through a third-party service, keep in mind that the information may be shared with the third-party service.

Subject to your settings, we also provide certain third parties with personal data to help us offer or operate our services. You can learn more about these partnerships in our Help Center, and you can control whether Twitter shares your personal data in this way by using the “Allow additional information sharing with business partners” option in your Personalization and Data settings. (This setting does not control sharing described elsewhere in our Privacy Policy, such as when we share data with our service providers, or through partnerships other than as described in our Help Center.) 
 

3.2 Service Providers


We engage service providers to perform functions and provide services for us in the United States, Ireland, and other countries. For example, we use a variety of third-party services to help operate our services, such as hosting our various blogs and wikis, and to help us understand the use of our services, such as Google Analytics. We may share your private personal data with such service providers subject to obligations consistent with this Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures, and on the condition that the third parties use your private personal data only on our behalf and pursuant to our instructions (service providers may use other non-personal data for their own benefit). We share your payment information with payment services providers to process payments; prevent, detect, and investigate fraud or other prohibited activities; facilitate dispute resolution such as chargebacks or refunds; and for other purposes associated with the acceptance of credit and debit cards.
 

3.3 Law, Harm, and the Public Interest


Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Privacy Policy or controls we may otherwise offer to you, we may preserve, use, share, or disclose your personal data or other safety data if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to comply with a law, regulation, legal process, or governmental request; to protect the safety of any person; to protect the safety or integrity of our platform, including to help prevent spam, abuse, or malicious actors on our services, or to explain why we have removed content or accounts from our services8; to address fraud, security, or technical issues; or to protect our rights or property or the rights or property of those who use our services. However, nothing in this Privacy Policy is intended to limit any legal defenses or objections that you may have to a third party’s, including a government’s, request to disclose your personal data.
 

3.4 Affiliates and Change of Ownership


In the event that we are involved in a bankruptcy, merger, acquisition, reorganization, or sale of assets, your personal data may be sold or transferred as part of that transaction. This Privacy Policy will apply to your personal data as transferred to the new entity. We may also disclose personal data about you to our corporate affiliates in order to help operate our services and our affiliates’ services, including the delivery of ads.
 

3.5 Non-Personal Information


We share or disclose non-personal data, such as aggregated information like the total number of times people engaged with a Tweet, demographics, the number of people who clicked on a particular link or voted on a poll in a Tweet (even if only one did), the topics that people are Tweeting about in a particular location, some inferred interests, or reports to advertisers about how many people saw or clicked on their ads.
 

4. Managing Your Personal Information With Us

You control the personal data you share with us. You can access or rectify this data at any time. You can also deactivate your account. We also provide you tools to object, restrict, or withdraw consent where applicable for the use of data you have provided to Twitter. And we make the data you shared through our services portable and provide easy ways for you to contact us. Please note, to help protect your privacy and maintain security, we take steps to verify your identity before granting you access to your personal information or complying with deletion, portability, or other related requests.

Expand dropdowns for more information:  

4.1 Accessing or Rectifying Your Personal Data


If you have registered an account on Twitter, we provide you with tools and account settings to access, correct, delete, or modify the personal data you provided to us and associated with your account. You can download certain account information, including your Tweets, by following the instructions here. On Periscope, you can request correction, deletion, or modification of your personal data, and download your account information, by following the instructions here. You can learn more about the interests we have inferred about you in Your Twitter Data and request access to additional information here. To submit a request related to access, modification, or deletion of your information, or someone else’s information if you are their authorized agent, you may also contact us as specified in the How To Contact Us section of our Privacy Policy (Additional Information or Assistance). We may require you to provide additional information for verification.
 

4.2 Deletion


We keep Log Data for a maximum of 18 months. If you follow the instructions here (or for Periscope here), your account will be deactivated. When deactivated, your Twitter account, including your display name, username, and public profile, will no longer be viewable on Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, and Twitter for Android. For up to 30 days after deactivation it is still possible to restore your Twitter account if it was accidentally or wrongfully deactivated.

Keep in mind that search engines and other third parties may still retain copies of your public information, like your profile information and public Tweets, even after you have deleted the information from our services or deactivated your account. Learn more here.
 

4.3 Object, Restrict, or Withdraw Consent


When you are logged into your Twitter account, you can manage your privacy settings and other account features here at any time. It may take a short amount of time for privacy settings to be fully reflected throughout our systems.
 

4.4 Portability


Twitter provides you a means to download the information you have shared through our services by following the steps here. Periscope provides you a means to download the information you have shared through our services by following the steps here.
 

4.5 Additional Information or Assistance


Thoughts or questions about this Privacy Policy? Please let us know by contacting us here or writing to us at the appropriate address below.

If you live in the United States or any other country outside of the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, the data controller responsible for your personal data is Twitter, Inc. with an address of:

Twitter, Inc.
Attn: Privacy Policy Inquiry
1355 Market Street, Suite 900
San Francisco, CA 94103

If you live in the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, the data controller is Twitter International Company, with an address of:

Twitter International Company
Attn: Data Protection Officer
One Cumberland Place, Fenian Street
Dublin 2, D02 AX07 IRELAND

You can confidentially contact Twitter’s Data Protection Officer here. If you wish to raise a concern about our use of your information (and without prejudice to any other rights you may have), you have the right to do so with your local supervisory authority or Twitter International Company’s lead supervisory authority, the Irish Data Protection Commission. You can find their contact details here.
 

5. Children and Our Services

Our services are not directed to children, and you may not use our services if you are under the age of 13. You must also be old enough to consent to the processing of your personal data in your country (in some countries we may allow your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf). You must be at least 16 years of age to use Periscope.

6. Our Global Operations and Data Transfers


To bring you our services, we operate globally. Where the laws of your country allow you to do so, you authorize us to transfer, store, and use your data in the United States, Ireland, and any other country where we operate. In some of the countries to which we transfer personal data, the privacy and data protection laws and rules regarding when government authorities may access data may vary from those of your country. Twitter does not sell your personal data as defined under the California Consumer Privacy Act. Learn more about our global operations and data transfer here.

When we transfer personal data outside of the European Union, EFTA States, Brazil, or the United Kingdom, we ensure an adequate level of protection for the rights of data subjects based on the adequacy of the receiving country’s data protection laws and/or contractual obligations placed on the recipient of the data (where we rely on the EU standard contractual clauses these may be requested by inquiry as described below).

Twitter, Inc. complies with the EU-US and Swiss-US Privacy Shield principles (the “Principles”) regarding the collection, use, sharing, and retention of personal data from the European Union, EFTA States, and the United Kingdom as described in our EU-US Privacy Shield certification and Swiss-US Privacy Shield certification. We do not rely on the EU-US or Swiss-US Privacy Shield as our lawful basis to transfer personal data from the European Union, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom, however.

If you have a Privacy Shield-related complaint, please contact us here. As part of our participation in Privacy Shield, if you have a dispute with us about our adherence to the Principles, we will seek to resolve it through our internal complaint resolution process, alternatively through the independent dispute resolution body JAMS, and under certain conditions, through the Privacy Shield arbitration process.

Privacy Shield participants are subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the US Federal Trade Commission and other authorized statutory bodies. Under certain circumstances, participants may be liable for the transfer of personal data from the EU, EFTA States, or the United Kingdom to third parties outside the EU, EFTA States, and the United Kingdom. Learn more about the EU-US Privacy Shield and Swiss-US Privacy Shield here.
 

7. Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may revise this Privacy Policy from time to time. The most current version of the policy will govern our processing of your personal data and will always be at https://twitter.com/privacy. If we make a change to this policy that, in our sole discretion, is material, we will notify you within Twitter.com, Twitter for iOS, or Twitter for Android, via a Twitter owned and operated Twitter account (for example @TwitterSupport), or by sending an email to the email address associated with your account. By continuing to access or use the Services after those changes become effective, you agree to be bound by the revised Privacy Policy.

1. The many sides of you. Let your imagination run free. Explore your interests with a number of different identities.
2. Hello, World. Your profile information is displayed under your photo and username on your profile page.
3. Keep a low profile. Friends want to tag you in a photo? Lucky you. If you're not into that sort of thing, you can always change your settings.
4. Spam stinks. We scan your Direct Messages to try and prevent spam for you and our service.
5. Just like email. Only send Direct Messages to people you trust. Remember, even though someone can’t Retweet your Direct Messages, they still have a copy of your message.
6. Approved by you. We use your payment information to process transactions you’ve approved and for fraud detection.
7. Not hungry? You can change your cookie settings in your web browser.
8. Transparency matters. We remove content from our services when it violates our rules, like if it glorifies violence. When that content is gone, we want you to know. 
9. You’re in control. Even as Twitter evolves, you can always change your privacy settings. The power is yours to choose what you share in the world.

Take control of your privacy
Adjust your settings 
© 2022 Twitter, Inc.
Cookies 
Privacy 
Terms and conditions 